---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Challenges faced in group project"
---

## Oppia

Our group decided that we want to work on Oppia, and we already face a pretty significant issue with installation. Only I was able to install Oppia successfully and my other two teammates ran into issue with installing homebrew and virtual environment. After getting stuck for hours, we decided that I will be focusing on the coding section for now and they can help out on creating non-coding math lessons by filling out a form for the Oppia team to contact them. 

Even though we had little progress due to having majority of time troubleshooting for Oppia installation on the group work time, we have the general idea of what we will be doing. Since only my laptop can run the Oppia developer server, I will be responsible for testing and the majority of the coding part. However, they can still help out with coding through pull and push requests on github. I have added comments to two of the open issues titled beginner friendly and an error encountered while running preliminary tests, and once the team replies, I will start working on the issues.

It's in my expection that running such a large project takes quite a long time, and while I was running the instruction shell code for an open issue that parse through the testing file, each run took me a long time, and I encountered an error after running for five times. It was surprising to me that even a well developed project such as Oppia, there can be many roadblocks and errors faced as a developer for contributing to the website. I realized that there's a big difference as an end user and as a developer, and being a developer means constantly facing errors, and looking for solutions either by looking into the error message or seeking for help by opening an issue. 

I learned a lot in my two weeks of coorperating on a project that neither of us have any slight idea of what we might encounter