---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Project progress"
---

## Intersting things
--- 
What's intersting about other group's presentation is that in the three groups that talked about Oppia, we had very different experience. For example, the group after we presented seemed to be very critical of the Oppia community and especially the codebase and how contributions are not strictly checked. And another group felt that Oppia has a pretty welcoming community and high responsiveness. This difference, I think, is due to the fact that people come from different experiences and are working on different issues to contribute, thus, they might encounter different issues, and even though their opinions are very different, their arguments are valid in their own ways. 

## Project progress
---
This week I worked the second coding issue I claimed and by the end of Thursday, I have fixed 50 errors, leaving just one error that I attempted but couldn't fix since it might has to do with how the rules in other files, and all the changes I tried resulted in breaking the entire system. I thought that I could definitely make a pull request by Wednesday, but I did end up spending hours trying to make sure that the last error can be fixed. So on Friday, I gave up and decided to comment on the issue and @ the coordinator about this problem, and I'm still waiting for a reply. 

On the otherhand, our first pull request has a few errors, and Ayden and I worked to solve them. However, they just responded today and says that the pull request is stale(for a second time) and we need to fix that error.

In conclusion, I have been working on the two issues, and hopefully by presentation, I have have at least one issue merged.