---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Inner source and project progress"
---

## Innersource
---
 Innersource is using open source best practice inside a company infrastructure for the development of non open source softwares. In the class, we were shown a video  about two very involved people in inner source. One person is the founder of the Innersource common foundation to promote and share about inner source method, and the other is a member of the Apache software foundation.  
 In 2014, articles claimed that open source claimed victor, but it was clear that company need to learn collaboration before going open source. In inner source, peoplea agree that whatever is discussed in inner source can be shared publicly but must cut away affiliations and only show the solutions. Inner source didn't "lose" in 2014, in fact, the Fintech open soruce foundation is interested in inner source and started up an inner source groups last year and the presentors in the video believed it's a snowball year for inner source.

 An interesting point of view they brought up was that inner source makes code more readable because people are forced to comment code better since they are working with others in the company in an open source manner even though the software itself is not proprietory.

 Another interesting thing they brought up is that inner source keeps new college grads longer since by allowing people to engage in higher league products to collge grads that they normally wouldn't have access to, they have more valuable things to learn from and they tend to wnat to stick to the company for longer since they have access to a lot of things that they wouldn't have access to if the software is proprietory.


## Project progress
---
This week Ayden and I worked on the issue we claimed and by the end of Thursday, we successfully made our first pull request and now we are waiting for the response from the team, and meanwhile, we have submitted two more requests for two more issues on the frontend while the first issue was on the backend. 

We learned a lot from the first pull request. We realized how rigorous the code style is enforced in large scale companies' codebase. Even an extra white space, a new line that doesn't follow the style will generate an error. This way, it keeps the codebase much more readable and organized for new developers to contribute. We also learned that the commit messages need to be descriptive because that speeds up the coordinator's process of going through our changes and see if they can be merged. Even though the code ended up to be about 30 lines, it was not easy for us to navigate to the files and understand what and how we need to implement the new functionality for the codebase and how to test if our implementation doesn't "break" the server. 