---
layout: post
title: "Week 2 Thoughts on Code of Conduct"
---

## Different Open Source's Code of Conduct

### Go

> After looking through the Go code of conduct, I believe that having such a document would be beneficial to any medium to large sized projects with a large group of contributors. In the event of an argument or a clash of ideas between the contributors, having a common document that everyone agrees upon will speed up the process of reaching an agreement or compromise.

> The Go code of conduct is based on the contributor covenent code of conduct with some minor tweaks. For example, it added the section "Conflict Resolution", which provides an anonymous way to report violations of the code of conduct. Having this section adds another layer of authority to the code of conduct since there will be actions taken for anyone who's caught violating the code of conduct. Go also adds a summary secton for anyone looking for a short summary of the code of conduct.

### Eclipse

> Here is the link to the [eclipse code of conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php). The main difference between the eclipse code of conduct and the go code of conduct is that go has an about section, which reiterates the goal of the code of conduct. Instead of having "conflict solution", eclipse has the enforcement section. I think the difference arises from the fact that eclipse is a ide while go is a programming language, and it's more common for a programming language to have conflicting solutions, which isn't necessarily bad.

### Sugarlab

> As an open source project for student code learning platform, the code of conduct differs from Go in that it's more possible to make contributiin to Sugar, so the code of conduct of Sugarlab stresses on "working together". It also mentions that language needs to be family friendly, which suits the purpose of the open source project, which is creating a platform for children to learn coding. The majority of the code of conduct in Sugarlab, however, is very similar to the Go code of conduct as both emphasize on the importance of fostering a healthy and respectful community. It's based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.

### Firefox

> [Firefox code of conduct](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/governance/policies/participation/) is much more detailed than the previous, and it lists out a detailed section for untolerator behavior, which in itself is longer than the entire code of conduct for go, eclipse, or sugarlab. I think it has to do with the nature of browsers. On google, it's easy to find out conspiracies such as Firefox is a spyware, or Firefox is not presenting a safe browsing experience, or Firefox steals your personal data, etc... Having a more structured code of conduct can prevent the contributors from conducting such deeds and also gain trust from the users.
