---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Project evaluation and open source videos"
---

## Project evaluation

---

What was surprising to me is how most of the work is done by one person, who made over a thousand commits out of eight thousand commits, and the second most has around two hundred commits. For such a large project and a popular one, I thought that it must mean that there are a lot of core contributors that contribute evenly to the project.  
Our group found out that it might not be a good project to contribute to because ohmyzsh is mostly written in shell language, which we have little knowledge of. Among the open issues, we were only able to find one issue with the beginner friendly tag, and it was made by the project coordinator almost two months ago.

## Open source videos

---

I'm glad that open source helps all kind of people, and beyong the computer science realm. The open insulin project creates an open source platform that makes the distribution and production much easier and also affordable for small bussinesses. This could tremendously help diabetes patients who are financially struggling to keep up with the rising price of insulin. The other projects such as NightScout is also very useful for parents to monitor the children's insulin level, which makes it less stressful for children with diabetes to go to school since the parents can monitor their insulin level at all time. The other functionality that auto detects insulin level at night and adjusts the pump can dramatically increase the sleeping quality of diabetes patients because they don't need to wake up several times at night, panicking that they might have missed a shot.  
Other than the medical field, open source projects can also help financially struggling students by having an open source platform that distributes books that's funded for open source use freely. I didn't know about Openstax till now, and I'm surprised how many books are in the Openstax platform. We all are "victims" to the insanely high price of books and each semester can cost over 300 dollars just to get the materials. This is a big amount of money and with the expansion of open source textbook projects, hopefully every student in the future can get digital books for free and wouldn't have to worry about not having enough money to get an education.
