---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Guest speaker and project progress"
---

Riju Khatri Guest Speaker Talk
---
In monday's class, we had a current Master's student in Computer Science at NYU to give us a presentation. She used to work at Blackrock, a fintech company, but she has been contributing to open source projects for almost four years. Some interesting things she mentioned include the impact of open source projects for resume and the drive to contribute to open source projects.

Even in her time at Blackrock, she still continued to contribute to open source projects, and she also believed that open source projects added a big part to her resume that's different from many others. Contributing to open source projects is very similar to industry experience and in fact, people welcome contributors and sometimes might be more patient with them since they are doing things for free.

Project progress
---
I continued to work on the coding part and in total, we have attempted four issues, but unfortunately none of them have gotten merged yet. The handler pull request has been updated since the coordinator's request, but no one has reviewed the changes yet, and due to that, the pull request keeps on getting the stale build warning from the bot, and it gets tedious to always have to merge the pull request because no one has reviewed them yet. The second issue ran into a problem and it's potentially not possible to continue with it, so I commented to get this task removed from the task list since it's not easily solvable. The third contribution is still in progress, and we are working on it right now. 