---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Presentation week"
---

## Presentation

I found the contributions made by Spicefy the most interesting. Initially a few minutes into their presentation, I thought that they made a UI for Spotify layout, but then realized that they actually made a theme, and also a working and visually satisfying one, I was really impressed because they actually contributed something pretty significant to the community. The Blender groups, on the other hand, had really great PPTs, which made me pretty interested in 3D modeling, and I really would like to give it a try some day combining Unity with such a powerful 3d modeling tool. 

As for our presentation, we were able to go through all the slides and the timing was perfect. We ended exactly at 1:45. 

## Thoughts

From the presentations, I think I wouldn't have chosen Oppia as the project to contribute to. For all three groups who chose Oppia, we did pretty similar stuff code wise, contributing to very minor fixes on a large codebase that doesn't have any major impacts. Oppia also wasn't something that really interests me, and it's just something that's listed by Professor as a suggestion and I thought that the Wiki page is pretty decent so I chose this project. Instead, I should choose open source project that is smaller in scale and really interests me. What's important is that when contributing to open source projects, keeping an incentive is pretty important. Since we are not getting paid contributing to open source projects, the main incentive for me contributing to Oppia is because it's assignment of the course. Thus, if I do want to keep contributing to open source projects and putting in my labor for free, I would definitely consider something that really interests me and I will contact with the main maintainers and contributors and see how responsive they are. In general, I learnt a lot from contributing as a group, and I'm glad that I chose Oppia as the first open source project to contribute to because it shows a lot of the the positive side as well as the negative sides of thiings, and I will be able to use my experience gained to make a more sound decision in choosing future open source projects to contribute to if I do plan to continue to do so.