---
layout: post
title: "Week 8: Reflection on Cathedral and Bazaar, and selecting open source projects"
---

## Discussion with Tom Callway 

This Thursday, we were fortunate to have Tom Callway as our guest speaker. He's currently working in AWS as an open source evangelist, and he used to work in Red Hat for the past 20 years. 

Customers want open source so that different vendors can pick up from where it's left off, and it also means tapping into a larger talent pool. AWS first service was s3, simple storage, and ec2, virtual memory management. They both depend on open source and not from scratch. They could have create it but would be several years later. If software dependent on stop being healthy, might have to abandon it, so they ended up forking a big code where relationship with partner broke down to the point where partner closed the source, and that project was called open search. 

A difference between vendor and open source is that if vendor tells you that they close, that's it. When open source partner closes it, can still use the last stage of open source. Won't have high ROI if not open source. 

He mentioned the red hat buyout by IBM, and he said he felt good but terrifying at the same time. 

A student asked what does it mean for key contributors that don't work for Red hat, amazon? He said that might be due to hiring. For Elastic, if AWS turns it into a product, then it can always be cheaper, etc, so Elastic also feared about Amazon. Instead, he said that Amazon should build partner solutions that include revenue flowing back to their company, and treat them as a partner. 
What makes open source possible was those legality concepts and licenses. Understanding the license and legal foundation is important.
He's job name is open source evangelist, but he said it's more accurate to say he's an open source technologist, strategist, and he's not out trying to convert people. 

Open sourced babelfish is one of the most exciting. It allow postgres to speak sql server. Babelfish translates sql server to postgres. Parts of sql server was not translated, and 87% was done so there's a gap. They should directly engage with customers and have them tell what's missing or even working directly. 

The biggest "downside", also the same as the biggest "upside", is that it's built by people. They are hard to deal with, opinionated, hard to work with when you think it's the right code but people don't buy it. Patience is the most important trait. 

The most absurd open source experience he had was that a company asked for a 20 year IT plan in year 2017, and they were stubborn to use high end serial layer for Linux kernel. 

So how did he sell open source product at Red Hat? First model was selling support, can buy support calls, and it was not a great way. It's also not a great way to interface with customers. Then the company turned to having subscriptions, it would give all the updates for the software that are pre-built, pre-tested, and they can call about everything. 

About mintaining packages for Fedora, Linux comes with a lot prepackages open source software. such as chromium. Make sure that projects work well. 

Some advices he gave was to be patient, don't write clever, comment well, follow style guideline, make sure having a good understanding of the project. 
