---
layout: post
title: "Git Activity and Discussion with Jim Hall"
---

## Git Activity

I started using git and github because it's a requirement for the Operating System class I took last semester so I was pretty late into the game. In this class activity, I learned about the importance of version control and how merge can get really messy, and it's always important to commit before pulling so that your modified changes can turn into a merge instead of completely being discarded. I also learned how to fork and manipulate data between upstream, main, and origin.

## Discussion with Jim Hall

In the second lecture of the week, we were fortunate to have Jim Hall as our guest speaker. As someone who was involved in open source since the 90s, we get a more nuanced view on the history of open source. As the scale of open source widened, I was surprised to learn that it's common now for open source projects to have multi-languge support both in terms of codig language and speaking language because people from India, China, etc. are getting more and more involved into these projects, meaning that it's not just a national thing, but a global thing now.

He concluded that there are two main reasons that make open source projects thrive, which are the two components of open source projects. First of all, to attract contributors, there needs to be a welcoming and inviting environment since people are not getting paid for cotributing to these projects and it's solely based on personal interests. Secondly, to attract users, an open source project needs to be easy to use and intersting.

Through the discussion with Jim Hall, it demnystifies open source and makes it easier for us to move our first steps to contributing to this less unknown field.
