---
layout: post
title: "Week 6:  Christopher Snider presentation"
---

## Christopher Snider presentation

---

In this week's Thursday lecture, we had the pleasure to have Christopher Snider as our guest speaker. Being a community manager in Tidepool, he informed us about diabetes and how diabetes patients have to suffer in a day-to-day basis. Tidepool uses the technology of a real time glucose monitor called CGM to read data every minute so diabetes patients can see the trend, and take insulin if glucose is low, and adjust the intake if glucose is high. In the slides he presented, we saw a chart called DiaTribe that listed 42 factors that affect bood glucose, but there are way more than 42 external factors that can influence the glucose level, and it's very hard to predict the glucose level even with such a detailed chart. With Tidepool, patients can recieve information about standardized data in the backend no matter the device, and it's really convenient for users to use such a device based of this conviency and compatability. In class, a student asked Chris how he kept going with open source desipte having little monetary incentive, and he explained that there are donation programs, and they have supporters to support for research innovations. Hearing that, I'm glad that open source programs are getting the recognitions because they have the capabilities to make everyone's life better with open technologies that benefit humankind.  
Tidepool considers itself to be radically transperant, and I really like that phrase because they are being radical in the medical field and there a almost complete transparency.

## Role of open efforts

Many communities are turning to more open community, and these open efforts are certainly helpful in all kinds of communities. In medical community, open source projects such as Tidepool offer hospitals with a much less expensive option to have CGMs for patients. In the education field, projects such as OpenBook offers student with legal options to buy books rather than spending lots of money with a timed access to the books or even going to pirating websites such as library genesis to get the books. In the operating system realm, Linux, the hallmark of the first large scale operating system that has been popular for decades, is an open source.  
No matter the scale, and no matter the expertise required, there are so many examples of successful open source stories that showcase how much all kinds of communities can benefit from them.
