---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: add-on projects"
---

## About Searchionary

---

Our group struggled with generating an idea for our extension that's creative, useful, and also simple to implement. We went with flashionary first, which needs to have local storage for the flashcards so that once a user decides to reopen the flashcards, they will still be accessible to them. However, we found it not easy to implement it so we switched gears to a dictionary extension that leads to the merriam-webster page with the words that the user typed in.

## Contributions and thoughts

For the initial thought of making a flashcard extension, I came up with the idea and I was working on the website for displaying the flashcards. After switching to searchionary, I helped with the javascript coding part. Through this experience, I found out that simultaneously working on a coding project can be tough to merge, and a platform for a coding "google-doc" can make everything easier. I also learned how to make an extension on our own, which I will definitely dive more into it on my own. As someone with little web design experience, I realized that most of the html and css are very intuiative, and with some javascript experience myself, I realized that I am capable of making my own projects.

## Other groups

---

I really liked the Darkspace idea and the slap-a-fetti is very cool as well. This made me realize that it's not that hard to add a functionality to some websites that's already well developed, and it made me less fearful to take those steps if I ever come up with ideas that might seem intimidating to implement.
