---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Reflection on Cathedral and Bazaar, and selecting open source projects"
---

## Reflection on Cathedral and Bazaar

In this week's class, we had discussion about the Cathedral and the Bazaar model of projects. The Cathedral model has open code but the development of the projects of this model is only made by the developers within the team. In the Bazaar model, everything is open code and open source, and everyone gets to contribute to this project. I really like the quote "Smart data structure and dumb code works a lot better than the other way around." In my years of programming, I've given very little consideration to data strcture other than the projects in data structure and algorithms classes. I found that jumping right into the problem sometimes can simplify and demystify things a lot because finding a data structure first without knowing the general idea of how to write the code can end up no where. However, I think this is because I've never worked on big projects and the class projects can be done without thinking about data structures because even slow ones work too. In the future, I definitely think that I will convert my mindset into thinking about the data strcuture and drawing out an overall view of how this problem can be solved before jumping into writing code, as this will train me into preparing for the industrial work settings that requires a lot more thought into data structures than now.

## My selection of open source projects

I have looked into Oppia and cockroachdb as possible open source projects that I would like to contribute to. The reason I chose is because both has very detailed wiki page for how to make contributions, which will help immensely into learning about the open source project structure. Another reason is that along the way I will also be learning new languages. In the case of oppia, I will possibly need to learn Typescript, and in the case of cockroachdb, I will need to learn go because the entire database is written in go.

I found that contributing to either projects is definitely doable, but it might require more time for cockroachdb because I am not too familiar with postgressql and cockroachdb is built on postgressql but in a distributed way. For Oppia, however, there are easier ways of contributing such as building a lesson page. I think no matter which project I decide to go with, I will get out a lot from it mainly because of the highly structured wiki page that will guide me through difficulties and also the friendly and reachable community that I can seek help from when I encounter issues.
