---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Bussiness models and project progress"
---

## Bussiness models
There are many types of bussiness models. For example, Red Hat is famous for support and service, mozilla has a lot of advertisement partners, mysql has paid additional feature, and wordpress uses SaaS. 

In the lecture, I was most interested about the gitlab's journey towards finding a suited bussiness model for them. Through trial and error, they had to try out multiple bussiness models until finding the right one. They tried out donation bussiness model and got up to $1,000 in the most profitable month after having a big drive. But that wasn't sustainable to run a company with multiple employees. They also tried request feature fees but failed when users realize that there are others who request the same feature. They also tried out paid support but that also didn't work well. In the end, they settled on open core, where some features are paid. The hard part is deciding which features are paid for. After many years, they now have a pretty good way of determining this. It is open source for functionality for individual contributors. If it's for the manager, it's in the starter edition. If it's for supervisors, it's in the premium version. If it's for a C-level exec, it's the ultimate Edition. 

I personally really like open core much more than the others because everyone pays the equivalent money of how much they need to use the software and depends on their dedication and professionality. It really comes down to the individual's choice, and having people choose rather than having a service is much more attractive to most users.

## Project Progress
This week, we made our first issue on reporting a testing error, and we are on track to contribute to both coding and non-coding contributions. We have experienced some roadblocks and the instrution for the coding contribution is a little bit confusing and we are aiming to finish contribution for the coding part at the fastest by next week, if not, then the week after since it takes a lot of time just to understand the code base and a sample issue has an 8 minute proof of work, and after reading through the long wiki instruction, it's definitely a tough issue labeled as a "good first issue".